Load Assets Faster ! (#237)
jaredpalmer/after.js: UPGRADING.md

  // ...
}
```

### `routes.js` config changed

To send assets (CSS and JS files) from the initial server response, we need to change how we define our routes.

From:

```jsx
// routes.js

import Home from './Home';
import { asyncComponent } from '@jaredpalmer/after';

export default [
  {
    path: '/',
    exact: true,
    component: Home,
  },
  {
    path: '/about',
    exact: true,
    component: asyncComponent({
      loader: () => import('./About'),
    }),
  },
  {
    path: '/contact-us',
    exact: true,
    component: asyncComponent({
      loader: () => import('./Contact'),
    }),
  },
];
```

To:

```jsx
// routes.js

import Home from './Home';
import { asyncComponent } from '@jaredpalmer/after';

export default [
  {
    path: '/',
    exact: true,
    component: Home,
  },
  {
    path: '/about',
    exact: true,
    component: asyncComponent({
      loader: () => import(/* webpackChunkName: "whatever" */ './About'),
      chunkName: 'whatever',
    }),
  },
  {
    path: '/contact-us',
    exact: true,
    component: asyncComponent({
      loader: () => import(/* webpackChunkName: "ContactUs" */ './Contact'),
      chunkName: 'ContactUs',
    }),
  },
];
```

> > This is too hard and complicated (and there are more things that we have to take care about) so we made a babel plugin to do this automatically because we care about you (DX).

Reviewer: Part of the project philosophy is to _not need_ to rely on Babel. What other things need to be done? We should show the user in its entirety.

Author: I updated the UPGRADING.md as shown below

there is one more thing that we have to take care about. if you use the same component in different routes, `webpackChunkName` and `chunkName` values must be the same in all of them.

```jsx
[
  {
    path: '/shop/:filter([A-Za-z-]+)', // 👈 different routes
    exact: true,
    component: asyncComponent({
      loader: () => import(`pages/Shop`), // 👈 same components
    }),
  },
  {
    path: '/shop/:page([0-9]+)?', // 👈 different routes
    exact: true,
    component: asyncComponent({
      loader: () => import(`pages/Shop`), // 👈 same components
    }),
  },
];
```

✅ The right way to handle the above situation:

```jsx
[
  {
    path: '/shop/:filter([A-Za-z-]+)',
    exact: true,
    component: asyncComponent({
      loader: () => import(/* webpackChunkName: "pages-Shop" */ `pages/Shop`),
      chunkName: 'pages-Shop', // 👈  names are identical 👆
    }),
  },
  {
    path: '/shop/:page([0-9]+)?',
    exact: true,
    component: asyncComponent({
      loader: () => import(/* webpackChunkName: "pages-Shop" */ `pages/Shop`),
      chunkName: 'pages-Shop', // 👈  names are identical 👆 and they match with the previous route
    }),
  },
];
```

#### Use babel plugin

Create a `.babelrc` file in the root of the project (next to the package.json)

```js
// .babelrc

{
  "presets": [ "razzle/babel" ],
  "plugins": [ "after-async-component" ]
}
```

> > Check [after-async-component](https://github.com/nimacsoft/babel-plugin-after-async-component) repo for more options.

Reviewer: Move the babel plugin to this repo.

Author: should I create a folder called `packages` in the root of this repo? 
```
-
 src/
 packages/
   babel-plugin/ <- should i call this folder `babel-plugin` or something else ?
```

Reviewer: call the folder `babel-plugin-after`

Author: done

**by enabling plugin THERE IS NO NEED TO CHANGE your routes, and old `route.js` file works.**

> #### Limitations of babel plugin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Limitations of the Babel plugin
```

> There are some limitation, for example blow code won't work with plugin:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are some limitation, for example the code below won't work with Babel plugin:
```

Reviewer: Tell the user why it won't work here.

```jsx
import Home from './Home';
import { asyncComponent } from '@jaredpalmer/after';

const routes = [
  {
    path: '/',
    exact: true,
    component: Home,
  },
  {
    path: '/about',
    exact: true,
    name: "About",
    }),
  },
  {
    path: '/contact-us',
    exact: true,
    name: "Contact",
  }
];

function myTransformations(route) {
  if (!route.name) return route
  return {
    ...route,
    component: asyncComponent({
      loader: () => import(`./pages/${route.name}`)
    }),
  }
}

export default routes.map(myTransformations)
```

> to fix this just change `myTransformations` function implementaion to:

Reviewer: Tell the user what the bug is, it's unclear what we're fixing

```javascript
function myTransformations(route) {
  if (!route.name) return route;
  return {
    ...route,
    component: asyncComponent({
      loader: () =>
        import(
          /* webpackChunkName: "[request]" */
          `./pages/${route.name}`
        ),
      chunkName: route.name,
    }),
  };
}
```

### Add new webpack plugin

We have to add new webpack plugin to get chunks information from webpack (it's called stats) and save it into a file to use it later in our application.

This is not magic but it's using webpack magic comments.

This will create a file called `manifest.json` in the build directory.

> to enable `razzle-plugin-manifest` create a `razzle.config.js` file in the root directory of the project (next to the package.json):

Reviewer: Why not just contribute this as a PR to Razzle?

Author: yes, for sure.
should I remove `AssetsPlugin` from razzle webpack config, or should I add this alongside with that plugin?

if we remove `AssetsPlugin` there are going to be some breaking changes.

`AssetsPlugin` is going to generate this:
```json
{
  "client": {
    "css": "/static/css/bundle.36d04d42.css",
    "js": "/static/js/bundle.d3433edb.js"
  },
  "home": {
    "css": "/static/css/home.2f97ec2d.chunk.css",
    "js": "/static/js/home.82beecb0.chunk.js"
  },
  "about": {
    "js": "/static/js/about.1e639ac9.chunk.js"
  },
  "": {
    "js": ["/./static/js/sw.js", "/static/js/precache-manifest.96974c025fec5b5d12bd3959ac555f0b.js"],
    "png": ["/static/media/AviraLogo.906ef92a.png", "/static/media/BitdefenderLogo.57e13410.png", "/static/media/ESETLogo.fed44a25.png", "/static/media/FSecureLogo.9f9b31be.png", "/static/media/KasperskyLogo.6adab046.png", "/static/media/PadvishLogo.4ee6e526.png", "/static/media/PandaLogo.50c3b8b0.png", "/static/media/business.de4a6778.png", "/static/media/f-secure.62f6b90c.png", "/static/media/f-secure@2x.9aedf9f8.png", "/static/media/f-secure@3x.0b09d093.png", "/static/media/logo.299099e5.png", "/static/media/logo@2x.61bf8489.png", "/static/media/logo@3x.38c6193a.png", "/static/media/ransaomeware.69b525c3.png"],
    "woff2": ["/static/media/IRANSansWeb.0b5055ac.woff2", "/static/media/IRANSansWeb_Bold.43a0ecf3.woff2", "/static/media/IRANSansWeb_Medium.9c66b762.woff2"],
    "svg": ["/static/media/SliderButton.b3f3f52d.svg", "/static/media/add.587c8d1d.svg", "/static/media/addShoppingCart.839cb297.svg", "/static/media/arrowBottom.920f1bc1.svg", "/static/media/basket.14c8e15d.svg", "/static/media/basketFill.237a35f6.svg", "/static/media/bin.657d259e.svg", "/static/media/business.429de9e8.svg", "/static/media/clock.656a2e61.svg", "/static/media/delete.b91c4e05.svg", "/static/media/delivery-truck.ba934bc6.svg", "/static/media/discount.42ff889b.svg", "/static/media/edit.cc664895.svg", "/static/media/emptyCart.7acadfda.svg", "/static/media/fullStar.663eade5.svg", "/static/media/guarantee.6d0c5a7c.svg", "/static/media/instagram.6c1afdb6.svg", "/static/media/keyboardArrowLeft.dd3dbb8f.svg", "/static/media/power.6f864b09.svg", "/static/media/searchIcon.973823bd.svg", "/static/media/sub.86288a34.svg", "/static/media/twitter.a036d22e.svg"],
    "jpg": ["/static/media/bitdefender-off.c6291287.jpg", "/static/media/bitdefender.b4f9c3be.jpg", "/static/media/bitdefender@2x.818eb8a3.jpg", "/static/media/bitdefender@3x.35a4bbd8.jpg", "/static/media/blog-kaspersky.28417822.jpg", "/static/media/blog-padvish.629b86c4.jpg", "/static/media/kaspersky.2207b709.jpg", "/static/media/kaspersky@2x.2327672e.jpg", "/static/media/kaspersky@3x.26ef316b.jpg", "/static/media/userPlaceholder.02448a65.jpg"],
    "webp": ["/static/media/bitdefender.4ea5c386.webp", "/static/media/bitdefender@2x.44807f4c.webp", "/static/media/bitdefender@3x.44807f4c.webp", "/static/media/business.b0b5b473.webp", "/static/media/f-secure.7544497b.webp", "/static/media/f-secure@2x.bc7e6544.webp", "/static/media/f-secure@3x.765e0f60.webp", "/static/media/kaspersky.21d62015.webp", "/static/media/kaspersky@2x.386be870.webp", "/static/media/kaspersky@3x.c0c5e1a2.webp", "/static/media/logo.e662883a.webp", "/static/media/logo@2x.4e076e03.webp", "/static/media/logo@3x.8876d1f2.webp", "/static/media/ransaomeware.e3f9d29f.webp"]
  }
}
```
what this plugin will generate:
```json
{
  "client": {
    "css": [
      "/static/css/bundle.36d04d42.css"
    ],
    "js": [
      "/static/js/bundle.d3433edb.js",
      "/static/js/bundle.d3433edb.js.map"
    ]
  },
  "home": {
    "css": [
      "/static/css/home.2f97ec2d.chunk.css"
    ],
    "js": [
      "/static/js/home.82beecb0.chunk.js",
      "/static/js/home.82beecb0.chunk.js.map"
    ]
  },
  "about": {
    "css": [],
    "js": [
      "/static/js/about.1e639ac9.chunk.js",
      "/static/js/about.1e639ac9.chunk.js.map"
    ]
  }
}
```

the problem is not about that last object which has fonts, images, and other assets ...
my plugin saves `"client"` and other chunks CSS and JS file paths inside an array but `AssetsPlugin` saves them inside an object.

there is no way to handle them inside an object because of vendor chunks.

```js
"pages-Shop": {
  "css": [
    "/static/css/pages-Shop.0b5867d7.chunk.css"
  ],
  "js": [
    "/static/js/pages-Blog~pages-Shop.9dcd31d4.chunk.js", // <- shared js logic 
    "/static/js/pages-Shop.4409b1b8.chunk.js"
  ]
},
"pages-Blog": {
  "css": [
    "/static/css/pages-Blog.0c6823e6.chunk.css"
  ],
  "js": [
    "/static/js/pages-Blog~pages-Shop.9dcd31d4.chunk.js", // <- shared js logic
    "/static/js/pages-Blog.09994983.chunk.js"
  ]
```
I used a small trick to detect which vendor chunk is related to which chunk. inside the plugin, I saved the chunk name inside the vendor chunk file name and separated them with `~`.

Reviewer: Yeah. I would keep both so we don't break things. AFAICT, there is no downside to having both. We will just want to update all the razzle examples with the new asset loop generated via the manifest plugin.

Author: I finally did it.
[https://github.com/jaredpalmer/razzle/pull/1178](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/razzle/pull/1178)

```javascript
// razzle.config.js

module.exports = {
  plugins: ['manifest'],
};
```

> Check [razzle-plugin-manifest](https://github.com/nimacsoft/razzle-plugin-manifest) repo for more options.

### Update `server.js`

> Just import `manifest.json` file that webpack plugin generated for us and pass it to render. (don't panic if there is no `manifest.json` file, it will get generated once you run start or build script)

Reviewer: Remove the word "Just"
